---
title: Latin 拉丁
categories:
    - 音乐
    - Genres
tags:
    - 音乐
date: 2021-01-03 00:00:00
updated: 2021-01-06 00:00:00
---

> 摘自：https://emumo.xiami.com/music/style
>
> [虾米音乐 ## 发现音乐新世界 (xiami.com)](https://www.xiami.com/genre/gid/2)

拉丁音乐指的是从美国与墨西哥交界的格兰德河到最南端的合恩角之间的拉丁美洲地区的流行音乐。拉丁美洲是一个多民族的组合，因此拉丁音乐是以多种音乐的融合而形成的一种多元化的混合型音乐。无论是欧洲的白人音乐、非洲的黑人音乐还是美洲的印第安音乐，甚至是东方的亚洲音乐，都对拉丁音乐作出过不同的贡献。它们经过长期的沉淀，在以欧洲文化为主体的基础上，同时又大量的吸取了印第安文化和非洲黑人文化的各种因素，逐渐形成了一种多姿多彩的、充满活力的、充满动感的拉丁文化。

Latin music is a catch-all term for a number of diverse styles from different regions and countries in Latin America. Often, the term refers to Latin pop -- either dance-based or pop oriented-music sung in Spanish or Tejano. Tejano has a number of different styles, from romantic ballads to the narrative nortenos, and they're usually performed by large groups with acoustic instruments and horns. In the '80s and '90s, Tejano has also adopted smooth production techniques from American pop-rock and soft rock. Latin America is also known for such dance music as salsas and sambas, which have layers of percussion, blaring horns and an infectious sense of style. A related style to salsa is the bossa nova, a cool, laid-back style that crossed dance music with jazz. With the exception of tejano and mariachi, which is folk and pop based, most Latin music is defined by its strong rhythms.

  ## Latin American Music 拉美音乐

Latin American music encompasses rhythms and styles originated or related to Latin America.Some critics have defined Latin music as an incorporation of four elements: music style, geography, cultural background of the artist and language.The first of those encapsulates all music styles generated from Latin countries, such as salsa, merengue, tango, compas, bossa nova and bachata; as well as other styles derived from a more mainstream genre, such as Latin pop, rock, jazz and reggaeton.

Geographically, it usually refers to the Spanish and Portuguese-speaking regions of Latin America but sometimes include Francophone countries and territories of Latin America as well.The origins of Latin American music begins with Spain and Portugal's colonization of Latin America in the 16th century.Latin American music is performed in Spanish, Portuguese, and to a lesser extent, French.

  ## Latin Pop 拉丁流行

Latin pop (Pop Latino, in Spanish, Italian, and Portuguese; Pop Latine in French) generally refers to pop music that has what may be perceived a Latin influence. Geographically, it could refer to pop music from Latin America or Latin Europe (Spain, Italy, France, Portugal, Romania). Latin pop music is usually sung in Spanish, Portuguese, French, Italian or other Romance languages, although English and other languages are not uncommon. In addition, many international artists from France and Italy often sing in Spanish for Spanish language audiences. Major Latin pop songwriters include Selena, Leonel García, Gian Marco, Estefano, Kike Santander, Juan Luis Guerra, Mario Domm, Rudy Pérez, and Draco Rosa.

Latin pop is a popular style and there are several artists and groups who perform in the genre. Notable ones include Thalía, Lynda Thomas, Luis Fonsi, Timbiriche, Jon Secada, Julio Iglesias, Gloria Estefan, Jennifer Lopez, Shakira, Ricky Martin, Enrique Iglesias, Pitbull, Paulina Rubio, Selena, Luis Miguel, Rocío Dúrcal, José José, Juanes, Belinda, Alejandro Sanz, Eros Ramazzotti, Laura Pausini, Dulce María, Gloria Trevi, Fonseca, Vitaly Novich, José Feliciano and teen idol group Menudo.

  ## Latin Jazz 拉丁爵士

Latin jazz is jazz with Latin American rhythms. Although musicians continually expand its parameters, the term Latin jazz is generally understood to have a more specific meaning than simply jazz from Latin America. Some Latin Jazz typically employs rhythms that either have a direct analog in Africa, or exhibit an African influence. The two main categories of Latin jazz are:

Afro-Cuban jazz—jazz rhythmically based on clave, often with a rhythm section employing ostinato patterns from Cuban popular dance music.
Afro-Brazilian jazz—includes bossa nova and jazz samba.

  ## Latin Soul 拉丁灵魂乐

Latin soul was a short lived musical genre movement which developed in the 1960s in New York City. It consisted of a blend of Cuban mambo with elements of Latin jazz and soul music.Although short-lived, the genre had a great influence on the growing Salsa movement which would dominate the New York Latin music scene in the 1970s. Today, the term is typically used by Hispanic artists producing R&B or soul music.

Latin soul placed a heavy emphasis on its Afro-Cuban rhythms and featured songs sung mostly in English. The style grew out of an attempt on the part of Latin musicians in New York City to expand the reach of their music beyond the local Latin community and into the wider mainstream American society.

  ## Latin Rock 拉丁摇滚

Latin Rock(Rock en español) is the Spanish-language rock music. While the term is used widely in English, it is used in Spanish mainly to distinguish such music from "Anglo rock". It is a style of rock music that developed in Spain, Latin American countries and Latino communities, along with other genres like Caribbean ska, reggae, and soca. Successful musicians and bands playing in this genre are often noted for being "crossover" artists, as this genre inherently bridges both linguistic and cultural boundaries.

  ## Latin Hip Hop 拉丁说唱

自从说唱一开始，就有来自拉丁圈子的说唱。但是它直到很晚才闯入流行主流。Mellow Man Ace 的 "Mentirosa" 和 Kid Frost 的 "La Raza" 的双重成功标志着拉丁说唱－－用多种语言（尤其是西班牙语）的说唱，拉丁韵律和拉丁裔人的都市生活形象 －－ 在流行乐坛的成功。Mellow Man Ace 的兄弟，Sen Dog是最著名的拉丁说唱行动 Cypress Hill 的创建成员之一。

The constant migration of people from one country to another has greatly influenced the dispersion of cultures and music across the globe. In the music realm, this can be heard with many different genres, like reggae, (which later led to dancehall), rap/hip-hop, reggaeton, and Latin rap. The latter form of music has been a hit especially in countries with a large number of migrators to the United States. For example, Mexico has a growing hip hop scene with groups such as Control Machete, Cartel De Santa, and Molotov. Similarly, the movement has spread to Puerto Rico, a country where many of its residents have moved to New York, Miami and Chicago over the years. Latin rap was jumpstarted by a wave of rappers that included Ruben DJ and Vico C. Ruben DJ's hit, La Escuela, (The School) and Vico C's hit, La Recta Final, (The End of the Road) received considerable radio time during the late 1980s. In addition to Latin rap in Puerto Rico developing around the same time as early American hip-hop, and rap and reggae simultaneously having a substantial impact on each other, all three genres (rap, Latin rap, and reggae/dancehall) relate a certain message to their respective audiences. Puerto Rican rap emerged as a form of cultural and social protest within the Puerto Rican context. This is similar to the way American and Jamaican youth used rap and reggae/dancehall as a means to communicate their feelings on social, cultural, and political issues. In essence, Puerto Rican rap became the voice of Puerto Rican youth like dancehall and rap music are methods of expression for their Jamaican and lower-class U.S. youth counterparts.
Latin rap has also surfaced in the UK with a group called Cultura Londres who list Eric Bobo of Cypress Hill as one of their members.
It should also be noted that a number of East Coast rappers that have been usually identified as African American have parentage from a country that speaks Spanish or Portuguese, usually Puerto Rico, The Dominican Republic, and Panama. This list includes N.O.R.E., Lloyd Banks, Kane & Abel, Joe Budden, J. R. Writer, Peedi Peedi, AZ, Juelz Santana, and Fabolous

  ## Bachata 巴恰塔

A form of romantic dance music that originated in the Dominican Republic, but is now popular elsewhere in Latin America, as well as among Latinos in the U.S. Standardly features arpeggiated chords in the melody, and the instrumentation usually consists of an effects (flanger, reverb, and/or echo) laden lead guitar, a syncopated rhythm guitar, and electric bass, güira, and bongos keeping the rhythm. Lyrics often dwell on pain, trouble, and the dark side of love, and some compare Bachata to the blues for this reason.

  ## Latin Alternative 拉丁另类摇滚

Latin alternative, or "alterlatino", is a brand of Latin rock music produced by combining genres like alternative rock, metal, electronica, hip hop, new wave, pop rock, punk rock, reggae, and ska with traditional Ibero-American sounds.
Rock music has been produced in Iberian America since the late 1950s. Some rock bands started to use unusual instruments such as maracas and quenas. In the late 1960s, artists like Santana started using a different technique to make rock music; by incorporating influences of Latin jazz. Its sound was incorporated by young Latino-players in the US, as an answer to the rock en Español movement in Hispanic America and Spain led by bands like Héroes del Silencio, Soda Stereo, Caifanes or Los Prisioneros.

In the early 1990s, it was used by Mexican bands such as Maldita Vecindad and Café Tacuba, they were accepted on the Latino circuit in the US, especially by the Mexican community. Subsequently, experimental musician Lynda Thomas earned recognition and commercial success with alternative music in the same decade.

With the passage of time and many musical styles in the US-Latino, Latin alternative has become as diverse as the rock music genre itself. Today, many music journalists and fans regard Latin alternative as a subgenre of rock en Español, and like rock en Español, it may be further divided into more specific genres of music.
The most known event of Latin alternative is the Latin Alternative Music Conference (LAMC) that every year gathers a large number of bands from all over the Americas and Spain. It was first held in Los Angeles but two years ago the new host city was changed to New York. The 2009 event featured artists from across the Americas including Argentina's Juana Molina, Puerto Rican hip-hop and reggaeton outfit Calle 13, Colombian group Bomba Estéreo, Brazilian singer-songwriter Curumin and Mexico's Natalia Lafourcade, and was profiled along with the wider Latin alternative scene in an article in The New York Times.

  ## Salsa 萨尔萨

萨尔萨，一种结合了古巴黑人音乐、美国爵士乐以及南美民间音乐的舞曲音乐。40年代起源于美国，经过50至60年代的演变和发展，于70年代中期形成流行高峰。萨尔萨的节奏乐器仍以拉美打击乐器为主，如沙球、响棒、康加鼓、邦戈鼓等。基本节奏型与曼波、恰恰相似，但萨尔萨中的一种两小节节奏型却独具特色：4/4拍，× × ×× | 0 ×× 0 0 |。传统的萨尔萨音乐，经常由一个不断反复的固定动机构成的曼波段落而组成。salsa乐风及舞蹈百花齐放席卷了整个美洲各国，更沿烧全世界。 Salsa is one of the most dynamic musical styles to come out of the western hemisphere. "Salsa" means "sauce," but the term should not be taken to mean simply hot and vibrant, nor should the music be regarded as such. Salsa is a term much like the word "swing" as it was applied to the jazz swing bands of the 1930s and 1940s. It describes a feeling that covers a wide range of emotions and musical expression. Salsa is not always fast-paced and vivid — it can be slow and romantic or anything in between. The basic sound of salsa was intact before the term was applied to the music. In the 1940s and '50s, the Cuban sonero Arsenio Rodrigues, a blind tres player, became the dominant trendsetter in Latin music. His ensemble included a piano, a second trumpet, sometimes a saxophone, and an expanded rhythm section that included timbales, conga, and a cowbell. Instrumental parts were standardized and tight pre-set compositions were used. Salsa is also characterized by syncopated bass patterns. The ensembles of Rodrigues became the standard for Cuban dance bands and formed the basis for salsa. Salsa is influenced by many Latin musical forms, like the Puerto Rican plenas, the Dominican merengue, and the Colombian cumbia, but its backbone is the Cuban son. The primary difference between salsa and Cuban music is that salsa has largely developed outside of Cuba. Although salseros are found in most Latin American countries, it is primarily associated with Puerto Rican musicians. The term "salsa" did not come into use until the 1960s. It was applied to the music of Tito Puente and others who had been playing the music for at least 25 years. The term was made popular primarily by Jerry Masucci, the New York-based founder of Fania Records (the largest producer of Latin dance music recordings until the 1980s). The best years for salsa were the 1970s, when Latin Americans were looking back to their roots. This showed in the attitude of salsa musicians looking for stylistic purity. They did so by using smaller band sizes like that of the Cuban conjunto, consisting of a rhythm section with a front line of three to five horns and one or two singers. Although salsa is a Cuban-based musical form (and a commercial form as well), it has served as a rallying point for Puerto Ricans and as an icon of pan-Latin consciousness. Nonetheless, salsa is still a form of dance music subject to the whims of public tastes, and it suffered a decline in popularity in the 1980s as the Dominican merengue became fashionable. Salsa survived in all its dynamism but in a more diffuse environment, as other styles of Latin music become popular on a mass level. — Keith Johnson

> Siempre Me Quedará

  ## Tango 探戈



  ## Tropical 热带

热带本质是一个包罗万象的现代拉丁音乐，产生于加勒比海-如古巴，波多黎各和多米尼加共和国（但不是墨西哥内陆地区）。萨尔萨、梅伦格、坎比亚是在热带音乐中最流行的节奏。Tropical is essentially a catch-all term for modernized Latin music emanating from the Caribbean — places like Cuba, Puerto Rico, and the Dominican Republic (though not the inland areas of Mexico). Salsa, merengue, and cumbia are the most popular rhythms in tropical music, although there's room for ballads as well as uptempo dance numbers. While tropical draws on traditional musical forms, its sound and sensibilities are contemporary — it may employ electronic instruments like synthesizers and drum machines, and it is generally geared toward Latin pop radio and/or dance clubs.